## Visualization of FIFA 2019 dataset

FIFA 2019 dataset contains attributes of football players and was obtained from [here](https://www.kaggle.com/karangadiya/fifa19). This data set was visualized using Tableau [dashboard](https://public.tableau.com/profile/suhas.shastry#!/vizhome/FIFA_15515893209100/Dashboard1?publish=yes).

Player agility plot depicts the agility and ball control of players playing in different positions (Forward, Midfield, Back or Goalkeeper) and who have different body shapes (lean, normal or stock). Midfielders in general have very high agility compared to players who play at different positions. Players who are lean have more agility in all positions compared to normal and stock body types. Forward and midfield players in general have more ball control. Agility and ball control are positively correlated when ball control is less than average of all players. If player posess average ball control, he most likely to be most agile.

Wage vs Player ratings plot is a scatter plot which illustrates the realtionship between wage of players and their ratings in FIFA 2019. There is a non linear relationship between player ratings and wage. As rating increases wage increases almost linearly from rating 45 to 75. From rating 75 to 95, there is exponential rise in wages. In this high rating region, the players who are in the upper zone of data cloud like T Kroos, L Saurez, Coutinho etc are paid more than they are worth and players in lower zone of data cloud like A. Greizmann, G Buffon, J Oblak etc are paid less than they deserve.

Players physical strength vs Goal finishing is a scatter plot where dots are sized based on the position they play and coloured as per their major foot. All big dots are in the top region obviously indicating that forward players have better goal finishing than other players. As all the dots are randomly spread across the plot, players finishing has very less to do with their strength. Blue dots and orange dots uniformly spread indicating that both right footed and left footed players have same finishing skills and strength.

Value of players vs Age group plot shows that players reach their highest potential in their mid twenties. As age increases from 16, players evaluation increases and reaches maximum around age 26. After they cross 27, their evaluation starts decreasing. Unsuprisingly, L. Messi is an exception in his age category. Rising star K. Mbappee is valued exceptionally high in his age group. Costliest player Neymar Jr. and K De Bruyne are valued high in their category.
